The next step now of course is to output our posts. Before we do that
however, let me bring your attention to a tiny problem we have here or to a spot where we can improve
our code. If we hover over posts here, in your IDE you probably see the type of posts and you see that
this is of type any.
That of course means that TypeScript is not able to detect how our posts look like, the format of our
posts because here, posts array also is of type any because the only thing TypeScript sees is that
we add the ID key here but other than that, the object we push is totally unknown to it because it
doesn't know the format of our response data, there it only knows that it's an object but not how this
object looks like. We can tell TypeScript how it
looks like. One way of doing it would be to assign a type here on the argument we're getting in map, so
we could say yes we know that this actually will be an object where we have a randomly generated string
and now this syntax can look really weird in TypeScript but in the end, you use a placeholder property
name for that
by using square brackets here and then you add key colon string in there, which simply means
this is any string key we have here on that object,
we don't know the exact property name because it's randomly generated or not randomly but it's generated
by Firebase and we do have many different properties but we know it will be a property that can be interpreted
as a string
and now the value held by that property is our actual post data, right?
It's the same format we have here.
Now therefore, to simplify this a bit for us,
we can of course add a new model let's say, a post model here, where I export an interface and I'll name
this post and this will just have that format here,
title and content and actually will optionally also have an ID, let's add a question mark here to
make clear that this is a string but it's optional and now we can use that here.
So there, we use post, we just need to import that, so let's import post from our post model file here,
so from ./post.model and now we know here, we have that randomly generated ID
but that will then hold a post as a value,
that's that nested element I showed you in the developer tools earlier. With that
now, TypeScript suddenly knows what's inside of response data
and now we can also set the type here on our posts array and say yes,
that will be a post array, which you set by using this type assignment, the name of the type and then square
brackets to indicate that it will be an array of these types. This now is improved code because now we
can clearly understand what's inside of posts array and we get better autocompletion,
for example if I try to access the first element, you see I can access ID, content and title because
I now know that it has this format and that therefore is a recommended practice.
However with the Angular HttpClient, there is a more elegant way of assigning the type.
You don't need to do this here on the argument in map or in subscribe or whatever you're using to access
your data,
instead the get method is a so-called generic method.
This means you can add angled brackets here and between the angled brackets, you store the type which this
response will actually return as a body
once it's done. So it's the response body type which is stored here and that will then automatically
be handled by the Angular HttpClient and TypeScript understands this and now knows that the response
data will have this type format as you can tell
and this is also available on post requests,
it's available on all requests,
you can use these angled brackets to add this extra piece of information which is totally optional but
recommended and helpful about the data you're getting back.
And now here you know it'll be a Javascript object where you have a name property and the value of that
will be a string
because if you remember when you send a post, this is a new post, really new, the data you get back is
exactly such an object, name property and then a random string
and now we're making this really clear here so that we also know this in our subscribe function and
if we had code that depends on the types, we get better autocompletion and avoid unnecessary TypeScript
errors.
So this is optional but recommended, you can define the response data types here on these generic HTTP verb
methods.